README.markdown, before:

logger
======

Logger is a simple logging facility for the C language. It is possible to
output logging information to different output stream and to use different
logging severities.

Introduction
------------

Logger needs to be enabled using the global define `LOGGER_ENABLE` when
compiling the sources. Otherwise all functions will be excluded from
compilation.

Logger supports multiple IDs. A logger ID is requested with a call to
`logger_id_request()` and released with `logger_id_release()`. Multiple
calls to `logger_id_request()` with the same name as argument result in the
same ID. Thus it inherits all already done configurations. A ID needs to be
enabled by `logger_id_enable()` and could be disabled by
`logger_id_disable()`.

Each ID has its own severity which needs to be set by `logger_id_level_set()`.
Only calls to `logger()` with the same or higher severity are considered for
output. This way it is possible to enable logging only for parts of a program.
The function `logger_id_level_get()` can be used to get the current value,
store it, increase the level for some part of thew program and restore it
afterwards.

**By default an ID has no level assigned and thus generates no output until
a level is defined using `logger_id_level_set()`.**

Each ID has its own prefix assigned. By default each ID prints the prefix
`"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FUNCTION:LINE:"`. The prefix is changed by
`logger_id_prefix_set()` and it is possible to get the current value for later
restore with `logger_id_prefix_get()`. The prefix elements could be combined
using `|`. Available prefix elements are:

  Prefix element        Description
  --------------------- ----------------------------------
  `LOGGER_PFX_EMPTY`    Empty prefix.
  `LOGGER_PFX_DATE`     `"DATE"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_NAME`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_LEVEL`    `"LOGGER_LEVEL:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_FILE`     `"FILE_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_FUNCTION` `"FUNCTION_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_LINE`     `"LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_ALL`      All above prefixes in above order.
  --------------------- ----------------------------------

For backward compatibility the following prefix enums are also supported:

  Prefix enum              Generated prefix
  ------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_EMPTY`    `""`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_NAME`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_SHORT`    `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FUNCTION` `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FUNCTION:LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FILE`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FILE:LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FULL`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FILE:FUNCTION:LINE:"`
  ------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------

It is possible to give each logger ID different foreground and background color
as well as text attributes with `logger_id_color_set()` and reset them with
`logger_id_color_reset()`. Colors are changed by escape sequences and only
work on `STDOUT` and `STDOUT`. File output does not contain any escape sequences by default.

To get any messages an output needs to be registered to logger. Any stream of
type `FILE` is supported and multiple outputs can be registered. Registration
is done with `logger_output_register()` deregistration with
`logger_output_deregister()`. To check if an output had already been registered
the function `logger_output_is_registered()` can be used. Like IDs every output
gets a severity. This makes it possible to write all messages with
`LOGGER_INFO` to a file and only output messages with `LOGGER_ERR` to `STDOUT`.
Setting the level ist done with `logger_output_level_set()`. As for IDs the
current value can be get with `logger_output_level_get()`. Additional it is
possible to enable and disable colors for each output using the functions
`logger_output_color_enable()` and `logger_output_color_disable()`. There is
also a function `logger_output_color_is_enabled()` to check the current state.
By default only `STDOUT` and `STDERR` use color. For other file streams color is
disabled. Beside the file stream output it is possible to register a user
defined callback function to handle the formatted message string. This is
useful for example to keep the messages in a ring buffer in memory or to show
them in a message window of a graphical toolkit. The functions
`logger_output_function_register()`, `logger_output_function_deregister()`,
`logger_output_function_is_registered()` `logger_output_function_level_set()`,
`logger_output_function_level_get()`, `logger_output_function_color_enable()`,
`logger_output_function_color_disable()`,
`logger_output_function_color_is_enabled()` can be used to control the function
callback output.

**By default an output has no level assigned and thus outputs no messages until
a level is defined using `logger_output_level_set()`.**

Additionally there are functions `logger_id_output_register()`,
`logger_id_output_deregister()`, `logger_id_output_is_registered()`,
`logger_id_output_level_set()`, `logger_id_output_level_get()`,
`logger_id_output_color_enable()`, `logger_id_output_disable()` and
`logger_id_output_color_is_enabled()` functions to handle ID specific file
stream outputs. There are also the user specific callback functions
`logger_id_output_function_register()`,
`logger_id_output_function_is_registered()`
`logger_id_output_function_deregister()`,
`logger_id_output_function_level_set()`,
`logger_id_output_function_level_get()`,
`logger_id_output_function_color_enable()`,
`logger_id_output_function_disable()` and
`logger_id_output_function_color_is_enabled()` available. This way it is
possible to write output of a specific subsystem to a separate file.

**By default an ID specific output has no level assigned and thus outputs no
messages until a level is defined using `logger_id_output_level_set()`.**

Keep in mind that a message is only printed if the severity of the
`logger()` call is higher or equal to the level of the according ID *AND* the
severity is higher or equal to the level of the output.

When logger is compiled with `LOGGER_FORCE_FLUSH` defined it forcibly flushes
every stream after every output. This will produce horribly bad performance but
might be helpful to debug aborting programs.

Example
-------

Below is a basic example for using logger. Store it as `main.c` and compile
with:

`gcc -DLOGGER_ENABLE -Iinclude -o main main.c src/logger.c`


```c
#include "logger.h"
#include <time.h>
#include <stdio.h>

static void printer(const char *string)
{
  char   date[200];
  time_t t;

  t = time(NULL);
  strftime(date, sizeof(date), "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S", localtime(&t));
  printf("%s: %s", date, string);
}


int main(void)
{
  FILE        *stream;
  logger_id_t id = logger_id_unknown;

  /* check logger version */
  if (LOGGER_VERSION != logger_version()) {
    return(1);
  }

  /* initialize logger */
  logger_init();

  /* open a file as output for all messages */
  stream = fopen("logfile", "w");
  logger_output_register(stream);
  logger_output_level_set(stream, LOGGER_DEBUG);

  /* open stdout as output for messages above LOGGER_ERR */
  logger_output_register(stdout);
  logger_output_level_set(stdout, LOGGER_ERR);

  /* register user function for messages above LOGGER_INFO */
  logger_output_function_register(printer);
  logger_output_function_level_set(printer, LOGGER_INFO);

  /* get a logging id, enable it and set log level */
  id = logger_id_request("logger_test_id");
  logger_id_enable(id);
  logger_id_level_set(id, LOGGER_INFO);
  logger_id_prefix_set(id, (LOGGER_PFX_DATE | LOGGER_PFX_NAME | LOGGER_PFX_LEVEL | LOGGER_PFX_FILE | LOGGER_PFX_FUNCTION | LOGGER_PFX_LINE));
  logger_color_prefix_enable();
  logger_color_message_enable();
  logger_color_set(id, LOGGER_FG_GREEN, LOGGER_BG_BLACK, LOGGER_ATTR_RESET);

  /* do the logging */
  logger(id, LOGGER_DEBUG,    "id %d - LOGGER_DEBUG   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* nothing written */
  logger(id, LOGGER_INFO,     "id %d - LOGGER_INFO    in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_NOTICE,   "id %d - LOGGER_NOTICE  in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_WARNING,  "id %d - LOGGER_WARNING in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_ERR,      "id %d - LOGGER_ERR     in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_CRIT,     "id %d - LOGGER_CRIT    in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_ALERT,    "id %d - LOGGER_ALERT   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_EMERG,    "id %d - LOGGER_EMERG   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */

  /* release id */
  logger_id_release(id);

  /* deregister user function */
  logger_output_function_deregister(printer);

  /* deregister stdout output */
  logger_output_deregister(stdout);

  /* deregister file output */
  logger_output_deregister(stream);

  /* close file */
  fclose(stream);

  return(0);
}
```

Commit message:

document logger_prefix_set() and logger_prefix_get()
--HG--
extra : convert_revision : 721821d35b6639f706447964c875f2897279307d

README.markdown, after:

logger
======

Logger is a simple logging facility for the C language. It is possible to
output logging information to different output stream and to use different
logging severities.

Introduction
------------

Logger needs to be enabled using the global define `LOGGER_ENABLE` when
compiling the sources. Otherwise all functions will be excluded from
compilation.

Logger supports multiple IDs. A logger ID is requested with a call to
`logger_id_request()` and released with `logger_id_release()`. Multiple
calls to `logger_id_request()` with the same name as argument result in the
same ID. Thus it inherits all already done configurations. A ID needs to be
enabled by `logger_id_enable()` and could be disabled by
`logger_id_disable()`.

Each ID has its own severity which needs to be set by `logger_id_level_set()`.
Only calls to `logger()` with the same or higher severity are considered for
output. This way it is possible to enable logging only for parts of a program.
The function `logger_id_level_get()` can be used to get the current value,
store it, increase the level for some part of thew program and restore it
afterwards.

**By default an ID has no level assigned and thus generates no output until
a level is defined using `logger_id_level_set()`.**

Each ID has its own prefix assigned. By default each ID prints the prefix
`"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FUNCTION:LINE:"`. The prefix is changed by
`logger_id_prefix_set()` and it is possible to get the current value for later
restore with `logger_id_prefix_get()`. The prefix elements could be combined
using `|`. Available prefix elements are:

  Prefix element        Description
  --------------------- ----------------------------------
  `LOGGER_PFX_EMPTY`    Empty prefix.
  `LOGGER_PFX_DATE`     `"DATE"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_NAME`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_LEVEL`    `"LOGGER_LEVEL:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_FILE`     `"FILE_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_FUNCTION` `"FUNCTION_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_LINE`     `"LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PFX_ALL`      All above prefixes in above order.
  --------------------- ----------------------------------

For backward compatibility the following prefix enums are also supported:

  Prefix enum              Generated prefix
  ------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_EMPTY`    `""`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_NAME`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_SHORT`    `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FUNCTION` `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FUNCTION:LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FILE`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FILE:LINE:"`
  `LOGGER_PREFIX_FULL`     `"LOGGER_ID_NAME:LOGGER_LEVEL:FILE:FUNCTION:LINE:"`
  ------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------

It is possible to give each logger ID different foreground and background color
as well as text attributes with `logger_id_color_set()` and reset them with
`logger_id_color_reset()`. Colors are changed by escape sequences and only work
on `STDOUT` and `STDOUT`. File output does not contain any escape sequences by
default.

The standard prefix can be changed using the function `logger_prefix_set()` and
the current setting can be retrieved with `logger_prefix_get()` for later
restore. The standard prefix is used for all IDs but the ones explicitly
changed.

To get any messages an output needs to be registered to logger. Any stream of
type `FILE` is supported and multiple outputs can be registered. Registration
is done with `logger_output_register()` deregistration with
`logger_output_deregister()`. To check if an output had already been registered
the function `logger_output_is_registered()` can be used. Like IDs every output
gets a severity. This makes it possible to write all messages with
`LOGGER_INFO` to a file and only output messages with `LOGGER_ERR` to `STDOUT`.
Setting the level ist done with `logger_output_level_set()`. As for IDs the
current value can be get with `logger_output_level_get()`. Additional it is
possible to enable and disable colors for each output using the functions
`logger_output_color_enable()` and `logger_output_color_disable()`. There is
also a function `logger_output_color_is_enabled()` to check the current state.
By default only `STDOUT` and `STDERR` use color. For other file streams color is
disabled. Beside the file stream output it is possible to register a user
defined callback function to handle the formatted message string. This is
useful for example to keep the messages in a ring buffer in memory or to show
them in a message window of a graphical toolkit. The functions
`logger_output_function_register()`, `logger_output_function_deregister()`,
`logger_output_function_is_registered()` `logger_output_function_level_set()`,
`logger_output_function_level_get()`, `logger_output_function_color_enable()`,
`logger_output_function_color_disable()`,
`logger_output_function_color_is_enabled()` can be used to control the function
callback output.

**By default an output has no level assigned and thus outputs no messages until
a level is defined using `logger_output_level_set()`.**

Additionally there are functions `logger_id_output_register()`,
`logger_id_output_deregister()`, `logger_id_output_is_registered()`,
`logger_id_output_level_set()`, `logger_id_output_level_get()`,
`logger_id_output_color_enable()`, `logger_id_output_disable()` and
`logger_id_output_color_is_enabled()` functions to handle ID specific file
stream outputs. There are also the user specific callback functions
`logger_id_output_function_register()`,
`logger_id_output_function_is_registered()`
`logger_id_output_function_deregister()`,
`logger_id_output_function_level_set()`,
`logger_id_output_function_level_get()`,
`logger_id_output_function_color_enable()`,
`logger_id_output_function_disable()` and
`logger_id_output_function_color_is_enabled()` available. This way it is
possible to write output of a specific subsystem to a separate file.

**By default an ID specific output has no level assigned and thus outputs no
messages until a level is defined using `logger_id_output_level_set()`.**

Keep in mind that a message is only printed if the severity of the
`logger()` call is higher or equal to the level of the according ID *AND* the
severity is higher or equal to the level of the output.

When logger is compiled with `LOGGER_FORCE_FLUSH` defined it forcibly flushes
every stream after every output. This will produce horribly bad performance but
might be helpful to debug aborting programs.

Example
-------

Below is a basic example for using logger. Store it as `main.c` and compile
with:

`gcc -DLOGGER_ENABLE -Iinclude -o main main.c src/logger.c`


```c
#include "logger.h"
#include <time.h>
#include <stdio.h>

static void printer(const char *string)
{
  char   date[200];
  time_t t;

  t = time(NULL);
  strftime(date, sizeof(date), "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S", localtime(&t));
  printf("%s: %s", date, string);
}


int main(void)
{
  FILE        *stream;
  logger_id_t id = logger_id_unknown;

  /* check logger version */
  if (LOGGER_VERSION != logger_version()) {
    return(1);
  }

  /* initialize logger */
  logger_init();

  /* open a file as output for all messages */
  stream = fopen("logfile", "w");
  logger_output_register(stream);
  logger_output_level_set(stream, LOGGER_DEBUG);

  /* open stdout as output for messages above LOGGER_ERR */
  logger_output_register(stdout);
  logger_output_level_set(stdout, LOGGER_ERR);

  /* register user function for messages above LOGGER_INFO */
  logger_output_function_register(printer);
  logger_output_function_level_set(printer, LOGGER_INFO);

  /* get a logging id, enable it and set log level */
  id = logger_id_request("logger_test_id");
  logger_id_enable(id);
  logger_id_level_set(id, LOGGER_INFO);
  logger_id_prefix_set(id, (LOGGER_PFX_DATE | LOGGER_PFX_NAME | LOGGER_PFX_LEVEL | LOGGER_PFX_FILE | LOGGER_PFX_FUNCTION | LOGGER_PFX_LINE));
  logger_color_prefix_enable();
  logger_color_message_enable();
  logger_color_set(id, LOGGER_FG_GREEN, LOGGER_BG_BLACK, LOGGER_ATTR_RESET);

  /* do the logging */
  logger(id, LOGGER_DEBUG,    "id %d - LOGGER_DEBUG   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* nothing written */
  logger(id, LOGGER_INFO,     "id %d - LOGGER_INFO    in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_NOTICE,   "id %d - LOGGER_NOTICE  in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_WARNING,  "id %d - LOGGER_WARNING in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile */
  logger(id, LOGGER_ERR,      "id %d - LOGGER_ERR     in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_CRIT,     "id %d - LOGGER_CRIT    in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_ALERT,    "id %d - LOGGER_ALERT   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */
  logger(id, LOGGER_EMERG,    "id %d - LOGGER_EMERG   in line %d\n", id, __LINE__); /* written to logfile and stdout */

  /* release id */
  logger_id_release(id);

  /* deregister user function */
  logger_output_function_deregister(printer);

  /* deregister stdout output */
  logger_output_deregister(stdout);

  /* deregister file output */
  logger_output_deregister(stream);

  /* close file */
  fclose(stream);

  return(0);
}
```
